---
layout: post
title:  "Diagrams"
date:   2020-05-10
categories: blog
typora-root-url: ../../../
typora-copy-images-to: ../../images

---

Before I actually get started, I want to make sure that I have my environment set up with everything I will need.

# Diagrams

In my professional work, I use Visio to create diagrams and prefer to organize my thoughts visually.  Since I am developing this on my personal Mac, I did some searching for various diagramming software.

I fired up Chrome and searched for alternatives to Microsoft Visio.  This returned a few websites with lists and many of these had the same applications (in no particular order):

* Lucidchart
* Gliffy
* yEd
* LibreOffice Draw
* draw.io
* Pencil Project

I wanted a tool that is free/open-source to use a free or open-source tool and not only cloud-based, so that ruled out Lucidchart and Gliffy.  I downloaded yEd, LibreOffice Draw, Pencil, and standalone draw.io.  After trying to open the applications and enabling them in the Security & Privacy System Preferences, I was able to try them out.

The basic use case for my testing was _How easy is it to draw a flow of a few rectangles connected with arrows??_  This proved to be harder than I imagined.  I tried various combinations of  just could not figure out an easy way of doing this.  Sure, the rectangles were simple enough.  But trying to get a connector to attach to the rectangles and stay connected when I move them?  _Good luck!_  I also want to drag an arrow to a rectangle and have it attach when I drop it.  Another maddening exercise was trying to keep a line/connector to follow a perpendicular or 45&deg; orientation while I drag it to change the length.

I made the most progress with draw.io, although I still wouldn't call it useful.

# Blogging

It was at this time when I decided to retroactively start blogging about this project and experience.  I wanted a simple writing mechanism so I decided to write it in Markdown.  But where to host it?  I had a few options:

1. Write it into simple, standalone .md files, and store them in github
2. Create a Wordpress, Wix, Medium, etc.
3. Host my own Wordpress or other open-source application

I opted for #1 but still made a Wordpress account.  Now to decide which editor to use... oh boy that is going to be quite the rabbit hole but for now, I'll use [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with some plugins.

And thus concluded the day.  Still no actual code, design, or use cases, but we'll tackle that ~~tomorrow~~ soon enough.
